# **Practice Problem #151: Compressed Mode**
### April 29th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Compressed Mode](https://datalemur.com/questions/alibaba-compressed-mode) practice problem from DataLemur. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

You're given a table containing the item count for each order on Alibaba, along with the frequency of orders that have the same item count. Write a query to retrieve the mode of the order occurrences. Additionally, if there are multiple item counts with the same mode, the results should be sorted in ascending order.

Clarifications:

- item_count: Represents the number of items sold in each order.
- order_occurrences: Represents the frequency of orders with the corresponding number of items sold per order.
- For example, if there are 800 orders with 3 items sold in each order, the record would have an item_count of 3 and an order_occurrences of 800.

<br>

items_per_order Table:

| Column Name       | Type    |
| :---------------- | :------ |
| item_count        | integer |
| order_occurrences | integer |

items_per_order Example Input:

| item_count | order_occurrences |
| :--------- | :---------------- |
| 1          | 500               |
| 2          | 1000              |
| 3          | 800               |

Example Output:

| mode |
| :--- |
| 2    |

Explanation:
Based on the example output, the order_occurrences value of 1000 corresponds to the highest frequency among all item counts. This means that item count of 2 has occurred 1000 times, making it the mode of order occurrences.

The dataset you are querying against may have different input & output - this is just an example!

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
WITH mode_rank_table AS (
  SELECT 
    item_count,
    order_occurrences,
    RANK() OVER(ORDER BY order_occurrences DESC) AS mode_rank
  FROM 
    items_per_order
)
SELECT
  item_count AS mode
FROM
  mode_rank_table
WHERE
  mode_rank = 1
ORDER BY
  mode ASC
```

Output Table:

| mode |
| :--- |
| 2    |
| 4    |