# **Practice Problem #291: List the Total Slots Booked Per Facility Per Month**
### September 16th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [List the Total Slots Booked Per Facility Per Month](https://pgexercises.com/questions/aggregates/fachoursbymonth2.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Easy.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

Produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility per month in the year of 2012. Produce an output table consisting of facility id and slots, sorted by the id and month.

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
SELECT
	facid,
	DATE_PART('month', starttime) AS month,
	SUM(slots) AS total_slots
FROM
	cd.bookings
WHERE
	DATE_TRUNC('year', starttime) = '2012-01-01 00:00:00'
GROUP BY
	facid,
	month
ORDER BY
	facid,
	month
```
