# **Practice Problem #295: Find Facilities with a Total Revenue Less Than 1000**
### September 20th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Find Facilities with a Total Revenue Less Than 1000](https://pgexercises.com/questions/aggregates/facrev.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

Produce a list of facilities with a total revenue less than 1000. Produce an output table consisting of facility name and revenue, sorted by revenue. Remember that there's a different cost for guests and members!

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
WITH revenue_table AS (
  SELECT
	  name,
	  SUM(CASE
		  WHEN memid > 0 THEN (slots * membercost)
		  ELSE (slots * guestcost)
	  END) AS revenue
  FROM
	  cd.facilities AS f JOIN cd.bookings AS b
	  ON f.facid = b.facid
  GROUP BY
	  name
  ORDER BY
	  revenue
)
SELECT
	name, 
	revenue
FROM
	revenue_table
WHERE
	revenue < 1000
```
