# **Practice Problem #294: Find the Total Revenue of Each Facility**
### September 19th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Find the Total Revenue of Each Facility](https://pgexercises.com/questions/aggregates/facrev.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

Produce a list of facilities along with their total revenue. The output table should consist of facility name and revenue, sorted by revenue. Remember that there's a different cost for guests and members!

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
SELECT
	name,
	SUM(CASE
		WHEN memid > 0 THEN (slots * membercost)
	  	ELSE (slots * guestcost)
	END) AS revenue
FROM
	cd.facilities AS f JOIN cd.bookings AS b
	ON f.facid = b.facid
GROUP BY
	name
ORDER BY
	revenue
```
