# **Practice Problem #296: Output the Facility ID That Has the Highest Number of Slots Booked**
### September 21st, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Output the Facility ID That Has the Highest Number of Slots Booked](https://pgexercises.com/questions/aggregates/fachours2.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

Output the facility id that has the highest number of slots booked. For bonus points, try a version without a LIMIT clause. This version will probably look messy!

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
WITH row_num_table AS (
  SELECT
	  facid,
	  SUM(slots) AS total_slots,
	  ROW_NUMBER() OVER(ORDER BY SUM(slots) DESC) AS row_num
  FROM
	  cd.bookings
  GROUP BY
	  facid
 )
SELECT
	facid,
	total_slots
FROM
	row_num_table
WHERE
	row_num = 1
```
