# **Practice Problem #301: Produce a List of All Members Who Have Used a Tennis Court**
### September 26th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Produce a List of All Members Who Have Used a Tennis Court](https://pgexercises.com/questions/joins/threejoin.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

How can you produce a list of all members who have used a tennis court? Include in your output the name of the court, and the name of the member formatted as a single column. Ensure no duplicate data, and order by the member name followed by the facility name.

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
SELECT
	DISTINCT(firstname || ' ' || surname) AS member,
	name AS facility
FROM
	cd.members AS m INNER JOIN cd.bookings AS b
	ON m.memid = b.memid
	INNER JOIN cd.facilities AS f
	ON b.facid = f.facid
WHERE
	name IN ('Tennis Court 1', 'Tennis Court 2')
ORDER BY
	member,
	facility
```
