# **Practice Problem #305: Find Telephone Numbers With Parentheses**
### September 30th, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Find Telephone Numbers With Parentheses](https://pgexercises.com/questions/string/reg.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Easy.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

You've noticed that the club's member table has telephone numbers with very inconsistent formatting. You'd like to find all the telephone numbers that contain parentheses, returning the member ID and telephone number sorted by member ID.

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
SELECT
	memid,
	telephone
FROM
	cd.members
WHERE
	telephone ILIKE '(%'
ORDER BY
	memid
```
