# **Practice Problem #306: Pad Zip Codes With Leading Zeroes**
### October 1st, 2024
### Languages Used: SQL

<br>

*This is the [Pad Zip Codes With Leading Zeroes](https://pgexercises.com/questions/string/pad.html) practice problem from PostgreSQL Exercises. The question difficulty is Medium.*

<br>

**Table of Contents**

-   [The Question](#the-question)
-   [My Solution](#my-solution)
  
<br>

## The Question

The zip codes in our example dataset have had leading zeroes removed from them by virtue of being stored as a numeric type. Retrieve all zip codes from the members table, padding any zip codes less than 5 characters long with leading zeroes. Order by the new zip code.

<br>

Schema:

![The image shows a database schema for a club management system consisting of three tables: cd.members, cd.bookings, and cd.facilities. cd.members: Contains member details with columns for memid (integer), surname (character varying(200)), firstname (character varying(200)), address (character varying(300)), zipcode (integer), telephone (character varying(20)), recommendedby (integer), and joindate (timestamp). cd.bookings: Stores booking information with columns for facid (integer), memid (integer), starttime (timestamp), and slots (integer). cd.facilities: Holds facility data with columns for facid (integer), name (character varying(100)), membercost (numeric), guestcost (numeric), initialoutlay (numeric), and monthlymaintenance (numeric). Relationships: The cd.bookings table connects cd.members and cd.facilities using memid and facid as foreign keys.](https://github.com/LexiPugh/practice-problems/blob/main/figs/pg_schema.png)

<br>

# My Solution

``` SQL
SELECT
	LPAD(CAST(zipcode as char(5)),5,'0') AS zip
FROM
	cd.members
ORDER BY
	zip
```
